#summary Google Summer of Code Logo Files
#labels logo

= Logos =

Community contributed presentations or other artwork are welcome and appreciated.  If you make something cool, let us know and we will link to it from this wiki.  


These logos are is licensed under a [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/ Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-No Derivative Works 3.0 Unported License].  

If you're wondering what this means, you are welcome to do what you'd like with the logo provided you do not change it beyond resizing it.  You are, for example, welcome to put it up on your website or use it on a flyer advertising your organization's participation in the program.  If you want to use it in a presentation, that's great, as long as you don't charge people to come and see you talk.  (Then again, you shouldn't be charging people to come hear you talk about Summer of Code anyway. :)

== 2014 Logos ==

The [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=2014+logo&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount 2014 logo] is now available in JPEG, EPS and an avatar version in PNG.

== 2013 Logos ==

The [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=2013+logo&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount 2013 logo] is now available in JPEG, EPS, and PNG, black on white, and white on black.

== 2012 Logos ==

The [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=2012+logo&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount 2012 logo] is now available in JPEG, EPS, and PNG, black on white, and white on black.

== 2011 Logos ==

The [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=2011+logo&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount 2011 logo] is now available in JPEG and PNG.

== 2010 Logos ==

The [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=2010+logo&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount 2010 logo] is now available in JPEG and PNG.

== 2009 Logos ==

The [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=logo+2009&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount 2009 logo] is now available in PNG and SVG.

== 2008 Logos ==

The 2008 logo is available in a [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=logo+2008&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount variety of file formats]. You can also choose artwork that will appear better on a black or white background; the files are labeled accordingly.


== 2007 Logos ==

For historical reference purposes, [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=logo+2007&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount here they are].