#summary Flyers to Advertise the Google Summer of Code Program

= Advertising Google Summer of Code 2008 =

If you'd like to help spread the word about GSoC, download one of our flyers and put it up around your campus or any other places geeks near you congregate.  We can also use your help in translating the program flyer.

== Translation Help ==

If you would like to help us by localizing the program flyer, please:
  * comment on this wiki page that you plan to translate the flyer into a particular language
  * download the English language template ([http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_template_new.odt .odt])
  * send the translated version to [mailto:lhospo@gmail.com Leslie Hawthorn]  

Make sure to check the comments section of this page to ensure that you're not duplicating translation efforts with someone else.  Once you send the translated version to us, we'll link it from this page.

Alternatively, you're welcome to create your own GSoC promotional materials.  Just [mailto:lhospo@gmail.com tell us] about it and we'll link to them from this page.

= 2008 Flyers =

All of these flyers are available as PDF only.

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_arabic_v3.pdf Arabic]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_portuguese_br_new.pdf Brasilian Portuguese]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_Catalan.pdf Catalan]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_simplified_chinese.pdf Chinese (Simplified)]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/tchinese_gsoc2008flyer.pdf Chinese (Traditional)]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_hr.pdf Croatian]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_danish.pdf Danish]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/dutch-gsoc2008.pdf Dutch]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/english_gsoc2008flyer.pdf English]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_french.pdf French]

http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_galician.pdf Galician]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/German-gsoc2008.pdf German]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_template_heb.pdf Hebrew]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_hungarian.pdf Hungarian]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/Italian-gsoc2008.pdf Italian]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/Japanese-gsoc2008.pdf Japanese]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_Kinyarwanda.pdf Kinyarwanda]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_norge.pdf Norwegian]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/polish_gsoc2008flyer.pdf Polish]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/Portuguese-GSOC2008.pdf Portuguese]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_ro.pdf Romanian]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/Russian-gsoc2008flyer.pdf Russian]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_slovenian_new.pdf Slovenian]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer-Spanish.pdf Spanish]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008-es-es.pdf Spanish (Spain)]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/swedish-gsoc2008flyer.pdf Swedish]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_thai.pdf Thai]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/turkish-gsoc2008flyer.pdf Turkish]

[http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsoc2008flyer_vietnamese.pdf Vietnamese]

= 2007 Flyers =

Just in case you're feeling nostalgic, you can take a look at these flyers from [http://code.google.com/soc/2007/ 2007].

== Standard Google Flyer ==

All these flyers are available as PDF only.

[http://umit.sf.net/umit_proposals_2007/GSoCFlyer_PT_br_07.pdf Brasilian Portugese]

[http://soc.bouwers.info/summercode_flyer_07_DUTCH.pdf Dutch]

[http://code.google.com/soc/GSoCFlyer07.pdf English]

[http://www.quendi.de/data/summercode_flyer_07_german.pdf German]

[http://people.xiph.org/~arek/summercode_flyer_07_polish.pdf Polish]

[http://www.opsiland.info/summercode_flyer_07_ESPANOL.pdf Spanish]

== Organization Specific Flyers ==

[http://my.bzflag.org/w/Google_Summer_of_Code#Promotion_Flyers BZFlag]
  * Available as PDF and PNG
  * Languages: English, German, Spanish

[http://clam.iua.upf.edu/download/misc/soc-clam-flyer.png CLAM]
  * Available as PNG
  * English only

[http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/SummerOfCode/Posters The Fedora Project]
  * Available as SVG, PDF and PNG
  * Languages: English, French

[http://live.gnome.org/SummerOfCode2007/Poster GNOME]
  * Available as SVG, PDF and PNG
  * Languages: Arabic, English, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Greek, Macedonian, Spanish

[http://haiku-os.org/files/downloads/2007-03-15_gsoc2007-haiku-flyer.pdf Haiku]
  * Available as PDF
  * English only

[http://www.photopla.net/070322gsoc/ hugin/panotools]
  * Many formats
  * English only

[http://pgfoundry.org/docman/view.php/1000047/466/soc_2007_flyer.odt PostgreSQL]
  * Available as ODT
  * English only
  * BSD Licensed

[http://wiki.squeak.org/squeak/uploads/5935/SqueakSoCFlyer.pdf Squeak]
  * Available as PDF
  * English only