#summary GSoC Knowledge Base Team Bios

= Welcome to the Knowledge Base Team Bios Page =

Meet the contributors to the Google Summer of Code^tm^ Knowledge Base.

_Please keep bios in order by first name._

===Angie Byron - Drupal===
I got my start, both in the [http://drupal.org/ Drupal] project and as an open source developer, when I was a student during GSoC 2005. I am now completely immersed in the Drupal project, working full-time as a [http://lullabot.com Lullabot]. I help with pretty much everything Drupal-related, including creating and testing core patches, documentation, user support, developing contributed modules, training, and even creating the odd graphic here and there. I'm also on the Board of Directors of the [http://association.drupal.org/ Drupal Association].

GSoC has completely transformed my life, and I'm eager to help make future versions of the program a rousing success so that others may experience this as well. :)

===Augie Fackler - Adium===
I've been a mentor for Adium for both the 2006 and 2007 GSoCs, and have seen a lot of what can be done right or wrong with respect to mentoring and interacting with students. We did a dismal job as a project in 2006, and did much better (from our perspective, anyway) in 2007. At this point, my role is working with the -vv branch of Adium, working to make automated scripts to build dependencies as native frameworks.

===Leslie Hawthorn - Google, Inc.===


2008 will be my third GSoC.  :)

I held various roles at Google before joining the Open Source Program Office in March 2006, and I manage GSoC and [http://code.google.com/ghop/2007-8 GHOP].

In addition to all things students and open source, I host open source community conferences and hackathons at Google, usually at our [http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=1600+Amphitheatre+Pky,+Mountain+View,+CA+94043&ie=UTF8&z=15&ll=37.422833,-122.085056&spn=0.018132,0.042057&t=k&om=1&iwloc=addr corporate headquarters]. I'm proud to be known as [http://www.flickr.com/photos/41128780@N00/296375336 Google's geek herder]. 

===Marty Connor - Etherboot Project===

I am Project Leader for for the [http://etherboot.org/ Etherboot Project]. Our project has participated in GSoC since 2006. I enjoy the art and craft of creating software as well as that of creating community. I am interested many things -- music, dancing, science, art, philosophy, bowling, and amateur radio, to name a few.  I find the Open Source community to be a great place to add to a sharable common body of knowledge that enriches us all.

I have greatly enjoyed being a GSoC Project Admin and Mentor for our project.  Helping students gain a better understand of their craft and themselves has been very rewarding for me.

In my professional life, I am the Founder and CEO of [http://entity.com/ Entity Cyber, Inc.] For 20 years I have had the privilege of working with companies to help them to get the most out of their technology assets, and to make informed choices when investing in information tools and infrastructure.

===Robert Douglass - Drupal===

TODO: Update me.

Back in 2007 for my 3rd Summer of Code :D

I am a [http://lullabot.com Lullabot] by day, and a [http://drupal.org/user/5449 Drupal contributor], well, by day, by night, and all the rest of the time. I co-authored the [http://www.amazon.com/Building-Online-Communities-Drupal-WordPress/dp/1590595629/sr=8-3/qid=1171291491/ref=pd_bbs_sr_3/002-0249664-7274410?ie=UTF8&s=books very first book about Drupal], and am a technical review for [http://www.amazon.com/Pro-Drupal-Development-John-VanDyk/dp/1590597559/sr=8-2/qid=1171291491/ref=pd_bbs_sr_2/002-0249664-7274410?ie=UTF8&s=books another book], soon to be published.

Along the way I've seen how well the Summer of Code concept works, and want to share my experiences and any tips I have with others so that they get the most out of the program.

===Ross Gardler - The Apache Software Foundation===

TODO: Update me

My third GSoC season - I must be liking this thing.

I've been using and contributing to open source in various forms for about 10 years now. Over that time I have become more and more deeply immersed in the [http://www.apache.org ASF]. My involvement has bounced between using open source as part of my teaching and research at Universities in the UK and West Indies and using it as an independent contractor in the UK. At the start of 2007 I joined the [http://www.oss-watch.ac.uk OSS Watch] to provide specific support for community development in open source projects within the UK educational sector.

For me the strength of GSoC is the fact that people come out of it knowing more about how to work in an open development community and how to help others become immersed in such a community. It's not just the mentees that learn, the mentors learn a great deal too.

===Tim 'Mithro' Ansell - Thousand Parsec===
As the founder of [http://www.thousandparsec.net/ Thousand Parsec] project, which was part of the GSoC 2007, I was both the project's administrative contact and a mentor for two students. I am actively involved in trying to promote Open Source game development by doing things like [http://http://miniconf.mel8ourne.org/wiki/index.php?title=Gaming running the Gaming Miniconf] at [http://linux.conf.au linux.conf.au].

GSoC has been a huge success for our project and allowed us to do things we didn't have time for. We have also actively started targeting students outside GSoC and now have 3 students doing various projects as part of their course work.

===Wilco Jansen - Joomla!===
Joined SOC in 2006 as Joomla! SOC program manager, and will try to make the SOC program even better this year.

Within the [http://www.joomla.org Joomla! project] I work as [http://dev.joomla.org/content/view/1992/53/ Development Workgroup] coordinator. All information about the [http://dev.joomla.org/content/view/1552/92/ Joomla! Google Summer of Code 2006] can be found in our [http://dev.joomla.org/component/option,com_jd-wp/Itemid,33/cat,19/ Summer Of Code Blog Category], we will also blog about the progress this year and try to share as much as information as possible.