#summary Information about Google Summer of Code in Non-English Languages
= Localized Resources =

  * Check out our [GsocFlyers program flyers] page for basic information on the program in several languages.  Many thanks to all of the community members who provided help with our localization efforts.

  * You should also check out our [Videos videos] page for localized videos produced for the community, by the community.

=== Bengali ===

Mahfuzur Rahman Mamun has translated our 2012 program presentation. You can download it as a [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/detail?name=gsoc_preso_bangla_2012.pdf pdf].

=== Brasilian Portuguese ===

Gustavo Jordan has translated our 2009 program presentation. You can download it in the following formats:
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo_pt-br.odp Open Document Presentation]
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo_pt-br%282%29.pdf PDF]
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo_pt-br.ppt PowerPoint]

Gustavo has also put together this [http://gsoc-br.org/ website] with information about GSoC, also in Brasilian Portuguese.

=== Chinese (Simplified) ===

Abby Li contributed a translation of the 2010 program presentation in [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2010-Presentation-SimplifiedChinese.odp ODP] and [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2010-Presentation-SimplifiedChinese.pdf PDF] formats.

In the past, Frederic Mueller and his colleagues at the Beijing LUG kindly provided a translation of the [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC_presentation_SimplifiedChinese.odp program presentation into Simplified Chinese] (ODP file).  They have also posted more information about Google Summer of Code on the [http://www.beijinglug.org/ Beijing LUG website].

=== Chinese (Traditional) ===

Charles Chuang has translated the 2009 Program Presentation into Traditional Chinese. The slides are available as an [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo-Chinese-Traditional.odp Open Office Presentation] or as a [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo-Chinese-Traditional.pdf PDF].

=== German ===
Dirk Haun has contributed this [http://www.haun-online.de/presentations/ presentation]. Available as PDF & Keynote.

We also have the Melange [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/detail?name=google-sommer-code.pdf&can=2&q=#makechanges user's guide] translated as well. Thanks to Alexey Gnatuk for the PDF. 

=== Japanese ===
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2008-presentation-Japanese.odp program presentation in Japanese] (ODP file).
  * There are [http://groups.google.com/group/google-summer-of-code-discuss-ja?hl=ja Japanese discussion list on Google Summer of Code].
  * [http://www.fsij.org/ FSIJ] has created a website [http://www.fsij.org/homepage/wiki/GSoC2008 in Japanese] with more information about the program.

=== Polish ===

Adam Rakowski gave a presentation at his university and has contributed back his slides for use. [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GoogleSoC-polish.zip PowerPoint, zipped]

=== Russian ===
Aleksey Evtushenko has graciously created a website [http://gsoc.org.ua/ in Russian] with more information about the program.

=== Spanish ===

Ignacio Andreu has [http://www.debugmodeon.com/item/268835/informacion-y-consejos-sobre-el-google-summer-of-code written an article] with information about Google Summer of Code, tips on how to write your proposal and guidance on how to interact with mentoring organizations before the start of Google Summer of Code.

Carlos Mauro Cárdenas Fernández gave a [http://unimauro.blogspot.com/2009/03/ponencia-sobre-el-gsoc-2009.html presentation on Google Summer of Code] to his local university.

Rodrigo Lazo has also contributed [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/slides.pdf 2009 program presentation slides] in the Spanish. These were the slides he used during his presentation at [http://www.ucsp.edu.pe/ Universidad Catolica San Pablo].


=== Thai ===

Akarawuth Tamrareang kindly provided a Thai translation of our 2009 Program Presentation. It is available in a variety of formats:
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo-Thai_v2.odp Open Office Presentation]
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo-Thai_v2.pdf PDF]
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo-Thai_v2.ppt Powerpoint]