#summary Shared GSoC Wisdom from GSoC participants

= Introduction =

On Friday, April 11, 2008 Marty Connor wrote the following message

{{{
Subject: One line wisdom
Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2008 18:57:41 -0400
From: Marty Connor <mdc@etherboot.org>
To: google-summer-of-code-mentors-list@googlegroups.com

Fellow mentors and friends,

If you had one suggestion for organizations who are new (or even not 
new) to GSoC what would that suggestion be?

My first suggestion would be:

"Mentoring fewer better students is usually better than mentoring more 
students because each student requires resources, and giving more 
resources to a smaller numbeer of better students tends to be healthier 
and more productive for both the project and the students."

That would be my "One line wisdom" to share, what would yours be?

Curiously,

Marty
}}}

What follows is a compilation of the wisdom shared by GSoC Participants 

Words of wisdom freely given in the hope that they might be helpful to another.

We would appreciate your thoughts.  Please send them if you feel so moved.

= One Line Wisdom =

== Marty Connor ==

For mentoring organizations:

 Mentoring fewer better students is usually better than mentoring more 
 students because each student requires resources, and giving more 
 resources to a smaller numbeer of better students tends to be healthier 
 and more productive for both the project and the students.

----

== Christopher Sean Morrison ==

For mentors:

 Make the students feel welcome, integrated, important, and appreciated 
 by treating them feel like any other developer, through encouragement, 
 taking sincere interest in their efforts, and frequent constructive 
 communication.

There was a session at the mentor summit last year closely related to
this idea that turned out to be a pretty interesting brainstorming
session:  http://googlesummerofcode.jot.com/EncouragingStudents

----

== Peter Hosey ==

For mentors:

 Communicate with your student frequently (about weekly).

----

== Greg Noel ==

For mentors:

 Communicate with your student frequently. (At least weekly,
 more often is better).

For mentoring organizations:

 Set the bar high.  If you want quality applications, require enough
 detail in the proposal that the student can't just parrot the idea
 page.  A student who can't (or won't) do this isn't serious about 
 working for you and you will only waste time on them that could
 better be spent on a student who wants to work for you.

For students:

 Spend the time to write a good proposal.  It's more  than just 
 filling out a form.  A good proposal will require a lot of detail, so 
 don't be surprised if the organization expects you to provide it.  If 
 you have the background and experience to do the job, most of the 
 detail will be just a matter of pushing the words onto the page, so 
 it's not nearly as bad as you would think."

For both:

 Expect to iterate on the proposal.  Communicate, revise, polish,
 and clarify."

----

== Amy Stephen ==

For everyone:

 Be available.

----

== Michael Sparks ==

For mentors:

 Give trust, but expect proof.

 Expect communication - if needed, request & require it.
 
 Communicate your faith in their abilities, it works when all else doesn't.
 
 Give the benefit of doubt; don't be a sucker.

 Don't be a single point of failure (for your student/in general).

 Lead your student to your community; don't substitute for it.

 No one is psychic - if you need something ask; ask if others need something.

 Be open with everything, not just code.

 Very few like to admit problems, seek them out, we all have them.

 Provide processes that allow people to save face.

 They're geeks too, deal with it :-)

----

== Michael Schultheiss ==

 Don't underestimate the amount of time it will take to mentor students -
 we've found a 1:1 mentor to student ratio (or a many:1 mentor to student
 ratio) is much better for both the mentor(s) and students.

----

== Chris !DiBona ==

 Pay attention to even the most absurd threads on the mailing list.

(Like this one, I kind of rolled my eyes, but it's been good!)

== Vivek Khurana ==

 Be a mentor and not a PHB !!

----
----

== Your Wisdom is Welcome Here ==