#summary Presentations on the Google Summer of Code Program
#labels presentation

This page contains general presentations on the Google Summer of Code Program.

You might also want to check out our [LocalizedResources Localized Resources] page for community contributed presentations in languages other than English. 

Our [Videos Videos] page is another useful resource.

== 2012 Presentations ==

You can find the 2012 themed presentation slides available in a [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=presentation+2012 wide variety of formats].

== 2011 Presentations ==

You can find the 2011 themed presentation slides available in a [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=presentation+2011 wide variety of formats]. Thanks again to Joel Sherrill and Pawel Solyga for their help in creating the English language versions.

== 2010 Presentations ==

You can find an updated version of the 2010 themed presentation slides available in a [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/list?can=2&q=presentation+2010 wide variety of formats]. Thanks again to Joel Sherrill and Pawel Solyga for their help in creating the English language versions.

== 2009 Presentations ==

Joel Sherrill updated Pawel Solyga's presentation and Pawel Solyga helped with the updates. These presentations are available in a variety of formats and themes.

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo.swf 2009 Logo Theme - Flash]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo.key.zip 2009 Logo Theme - Keynote]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo.mov 2009 Logo Theme - Movie]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo.odp 2009 Logo Theme - OpenOffice]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo.pdf 2009 Logo Theme - PDF]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2009-Presentation-BlueLogo.ppt 2009 Logo Theme - PowerPoint]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC-Presentation2009-FlowerTheme.swf Flower Theme (2007 logo) - Flash]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC-Presentation2009-FlowerTheme.key.zip Flower Theme (2007 logo) - Keynote]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC-Presentation2009-FlowerTheme.odp Flower Theme (2007 logo) - OpenOffice]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC-Presentation2009-FlowerTheme.pdf Flower Theme (2007 logo) - PDF]  

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC-Presentation2009-FlowerTheme.ppt Flower Theme (2007 logo) - PowerPoint]

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC-Presentation2009-FlowerTheme.mov Flower Theme (2007 logo) - Video File]

== Community Contributed Presentations ==

[http://csdl.ics.hawaii.edu/~johnson/screencasts/GSoC2009.ppt PPT] - Slides from Philip Johnson's presentation on Google Summer of Code. See also the [http://csdl.ics.hawaii.edu/~johnson/screencasts/GSoC2009.mov Video]

[http://www.nsnam.org/docs/gsoc.ppt PPT] - Slides from Infosession at the University of Washington, March 2009, courtesy of Craig Dowell

[http://www.slideshare.net/dhaun] - Slides from Dirk Haun's Infosession on Google Summer of Code, also available in [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/wiki/LocalizedResources German]


== 2008 Presentations ==

Pawel Solyga has generously created a program presentation in a variety of formats:

  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/gsocpresentationfinal.zip Keynote (zip archive)]
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2008-presentation.pdf PDF]
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2008-presentation.ppt Powerpoint]
  * [http://google-summer-of-code.googlecode.com/files/GSoC2008-presentation.odp Open Document]