#summary Resources for spreading the word about the mentorship opportunities in preparation for GSoC

== Sample E-mail ==

Please send this e-mail to university Computer Science departments, student groups, FOSS groups, and technical women groups.

Please update the [http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/List_of_academic_organizations_interested_in_women_in_CS wiki page with technical women groups at universities] when you send the information to these groups. Also, if you want to help out, please select a few of the groups listed there that have not been contacted, find their contact information, and send them this e-mail.

----------------------------

Subject: Prepare for Google Summer of Code

Google Summer of Code is a global program that offers students stipends to write code for open source projects. Participants work remotely from home, while getting guidance from an assigned mentor and collaborating within their project’s community. The application deadline for Google Summer of Code this year is April 6 and the program dates are May 21 to August 20. The stipend for the program is $5,000 (USD).

http://code.google.com/soc

The organizations that will participate in Google Summer of Code this year will be announced on March 16, but the best way to prepare to apply is to become a contributor of the project that interests you early on. There are people in many organizations who are happy to help newcomers fix their first bug. Here is a list of some organizations where you can find mentors who will help you along the way:

http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/wiki/Mentors

Please consider applying for Google Summer of Code, encourage someone else to apply, or help spread the word by forwarding this e-mail to university Computer Science departments and student groups!

----------------------------

You can optionally add information about your organization before the last paragraph of this e-mail. You can lead in with something like "<Organization Name> is one of the organizations applying to participate in Google Summer of Code." and add a description of your organization and the different projects.

You can optionally add your contact information and availability to answer questions in the end of the e-mail.

== Sample Social Network Update ==

Prepare for Google Summer of Code! Select a project that interests you and contribute with the help of a mentor. http://bit.ly/xZXdpm

== Flyers ==

Please distribute the flyer shown below ([http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/detail?name=open-source-mentoring-A4.pdf A4] or [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/detail?name=open-source-mentoring-USLetter.pdf 8.5 x 11]) or the leaflet with the information from the [Mentors mentors page] ([http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/detail?name=open-source-mentoring-leaflet-A4.pdf A4] or [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/downloads/detail?name=open-source-mentoring-leaflet-USLetter.pdf 8.5 x 11]), along with the [http://code.google.com/p/google-summer-of-code/wiki/GsocFlyers GSoC flyer] on university campuses and at various events.

[https://live.gnome.org/GnomeWomen/OutreachProgram2012/SpreadTheWord?action=AttachFile&do=view&target=open-source-mentoring.png https://live.gnome.org/GnomeWomen/OutreachProgram2012/SpreadTheWord?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=open-source-mentoring.png]